- [Instructor] Before we jump right
into implementing forms-based authentication,
let's take a moment
and discuss why we should do this in a web application.
Let's talk about basic authentication for a moment
including the pros and cons.
So first of all, RFC 2617 defines basic authentication
but there is no specification that does the same
for forms-based authentication.
In fact, there's nothing even close.
One of the biggest issues
with basic auth is actually the inability to log off,
something we've dealt with several times now in this course.
Everything is session based with basic authentication
and as such there's not really a unified way
to handle logging off across all the browsers.
Most of them don't even implement anything.
Now, often you will hear about Base64 encoding
of the username and password as being a security flaw
in the spec.
Now, I want to put some of that to rest.
When you are leveraging TLS communication
between the client and the server,
the Base64 encoded header is encrypted.
So not only is the Base64 encoded,
but then it's encrypted on top of it.
As such, it isn't easy to decode as some may tell you.
There really is no inherent security risk
with using basic auth,
assuming your server is operating with TLS.
Now if you consider the risks of not being able to log out,
that can be considered a security vulnerability
and oftentimes I consider that as a security risk itself.
But the limitations to using basic auth start
to lose its luster quickly
when you're dealing with it on complex systems
even if it isn't inherently insecure.
With basic auth, not only can you not log out,
you also have no ability to modify the login window either.
It's handled by the browser.
And that causes many organizations heartburn.
With form-based authentication, you have complete control.
Since you leverage a standard HTML form
to pass the credentials to the back end,
you can style that form as much or as little
as you and your organization would like.
But keep in mind that you still need to leverage TLS
to secure your credentials on the wire.
This all allows for a much more seamless view
for your login page.
Forms-based authentication can provide support
for remember me options if they are implemented.
And many people like that,
especially in an enterprise setting.
And finally as you might expect, forms-based authentication
allows you to define a logout process
and a page to return to after you're logged out.
So before we progress to the next few steps
of our application, let's evaluate those steps
that we're going to go through before we begin.
So first of all,
we're going to need to create our login form itself.
Then we need to create the login process
and the landing page for all of that.
Then finally we need to configure our system
to not utilize the basic auth,
but instead to leverage forms-based authentication.
We're going to do this over several videos.
So buckle up and let's jump in.